---
title: Live With Passion
permalink: /explore-livewithpassion/
description: ""
---
##### Special Programmes

<u>Art Elective Programme</u>

The Art scene at Hwa Chong Institution has historically been graced by Singaporean greats. Pioneer artists Liu Kang, Chen Wen Hsi, and Lim Hak Tai, just to name a few, have all taught at the school. Today, their legacy lives on in our Art Elective Programme (AEP). The AEP nurtures talented, young artists into future cultural leaders, advocates and scholars who can contribute to the nation’s cultural capital in the areas of fine art, design and new media. AEP students are encouraged to pursue their passions and constantly innovate, developing their creative, conceptual and analytical thinking in the process. It is a journey that will expand their thinking, fuel imagination and transform the way they look at themselves and the world around them.&nbsp;

As part of their enriched learning experiences, they will participate collaboratively with AEP students from other AEP centres through customized workshops, visit art exhibitions, museums, and other well-known art shows, attend workshops held by current practicing artists and participate in AEP exhibitions.

These results culminate in the recognition that Hwa Chong AEP students are consistent frontrunners in prestigious competitions such as the UOB Painting of the Year award, as well as leading contenders in being conferred scholarships from the Media Development Authority, Urban Redevelopment Authority and other ministries.

<u>Computing Talent Programme (CTP)</u>

The Hwa Chong Computing Talent Programme (CTP) is tailored for students who have a burning passion for and the ability to take Infocomm as a specialisation at Secondary 3 and 4 levels. The core curriculum is designed with a focus on problem solving and computational thinking. Computational thinking is the thought process that involves formal reasoning, logical and algorithmic thinking and the formulation of a problem so thatcomputer based solutions become viable. There is also a strong focus on the use of the computer and associated applications. Students will have the opportunity to experience internships and attachments in local companies to gain first-hand experience in the work force and apply the range of programming skills they have learnt.

By having these elements, the CTP hopes to expose students to the environment, hardware, technology and related devices and peripherals so that they are prepared for the rigours inherent in the real world setting. This course is a progression from Infocomm at lower secondary level. More importantly, it serves to provide a foundation for further study in computing-related disciplines at post-secondary and tertiary levels.

<u>Science &amp; Mathematics Talent Programme (SMTP)</u>

The Hwa Chong Science &amp; Mathematics Talent Programme aims to provide an integrated, enriched and stimulating environment for high achieving Science / Mathematics learners. With numerous opportunities for passion-focused activities, higher level academic pursuits and other scholastic endeavours, the programme seeks to develop students who can think critically and communicate confidently. The Core Curriculum in SMTP is designed to broaden the learning experience, provide the right pace for high ability students and deepen learning through higher order thinking processes in all Science and Mathematics subjects. Distinctive pedagogies are used in the classrooms to develop students' skills in critical thinking, problem solving and inculcate independent and lifelong learning. Students will also be exposed to the Elective Curriculum, an extension curriculum that serves to excite, enhance and expose students to a wide variety of fields in Sciences, Mathematics and beyond. These elective modules, workshops and enrichment will be conducted by experts from the fields like professors from universities, established professionals and our in-house lecturers.

<u>The Humanities Programme</u>

As the first institution chosen by the Ministry of Education in 1980 for the HSP, Hwa Chong has established and maintained its position as a leading centre for successful applications to top universities around the world. One of the key sources of this success are the HSP tutors who are specialists in their fields and are also experienced in providing advice on university placement and scholarships. Through an informal yet rigorous teaching style, our tutors encourage open discussions and intellectual exploration beyond the confines of the syllabus so that individuals become independent and driven self-directed learners. Each year, our Scholars gain admission to top universities in the United Kingdom, the United States and around the world including France, Germany, Australia, Canada, Japan and China. To date, well over 400 alumni have graduated from Oxford and Cambridge alone. Closer to home, we see increased enrolments in Yale-NUS, NUS, SMU and NTU. Over half of the students gain scholarships to study overseas or in Singapore.

At the High School section, the Hwa Chong Humanities Programme (HP) attracts top talents who are curious thinkers, avid readers, and persuasive communicators.&nbsp; Through the study of the three Humanities subjects—Geography, History, and Literature—students are able to appreciate complex global issues from multiple perspectives.&nbsp; Interdisciplinary modules, involving the Humanities, Languages, Mathematics, and Sciences, are also a key feature of our curriculum.&nbsp; Through these authentic projects, students appreciate the resonance between disciplines, as well as the constructive potential of harnessing differences.&nbsp; Beyond the classroom, learning comes alive for our HP students when they work in senior-junior teams to organise integrated activities, such as symposia, mock conferences, field studies, and drama, among others.&nbsp; Beyond attaining academic excellence, our HP students and alumni alike are actively involved in service projects which uplift the community.&nbsp; We are proud of our HP students—past and present—who embody our vision of being engaged citizens of the world, and empathetic leaders of Singapore.